Oh, yeah. Those things were applied to a lot of the
professors. What was your major and why? Ag
economics. I started doing this lecture planning
here. And I found out pretty quick that my
background in math wasn't strong enough to do
that. So, in fact, the first semester I hadn't made
a B in B.E.O. and I had my ten hours until grade
points to stay in. So I changed over to ag
economics. I had a rural farm background anyway.
And I enjoyed it. What did you think you were
preparing to do? I had no earthly idea. Why did you
go to college in the first place? Well, because
when I was in high school, getting up at 4.30 in the
morning and going and milking them darn cows
before I went to school wasn't the thing I wanted to
do all my life. Your parents encouraged you? Yes.
Do you remember about what it cost a year to go? I
have, still have, some receipts. And it seemed
like a room and board
was about thirty something dollars. I don't know
where that was, a month or a semester. I'm not sure.
But I've still got the receipts back in my old...
Did you have a job on campus? I worked part-time.
Where? I worked some in the mess hall. And then I got
a job with one of the office supply guys there in
town. Selling office supplies out over the
country, you know, making food, fixing the dining
box and places like that, and snow. That wasn't
much of a sale. That didn't last too long. In
Ag-ECO, were there, remember any special
teachers?
Dan Russell, do you have him? Dr. Dan, the grade
point man? I believe I did. I believe I did.
And I'm sure, I've said it long enough, I can
probably recall
some of them. Let's see, let's digress on where did
all the veterans and their wives live? Well, a lot
of the veterans lived in a new area across the North
Gate, and there were apartments east
of there that a lot of the veterans lived with
wives. And did they change the atmosphere in the
classroom? I don't think so. My freshman year, we
had gotten very, very few veterans. My sophomore
and junior year, they began to get quite few. But
I'm assuming that they were serious, determined.
Well, some were, and some were joined right in with
us with a couple of them. Let's see. Activities.
What role did the YMCA building play? What
happened over there?
I really never went there.
I don't know that I... Guyon Hall? Guyon Hall was
our theater. Our movie house.
All of their... PE and stuff like that or
intramurals was, I guess it was all right there on
the east campus. Didn't have anything gross on the
street at that time for intramurals. The old real
field review was probably
the best. One thing that in final review,
but I don't know when they quit this practice, When
we were freshmen, we had a fish trap on our farm. And
that was the time you got to pull your fish trap off,
or if you were a search bug, for instance, you got to
take right off your hip. All those kind of things. I
don't know whether to do that now or not, but I went
back and some of my old memorabilia, I had some of
those things. And I give a display to the Corps
Center. It was there for a long time. I don't know if
it's still there or not. And where did final review
take place? It was the old real field. Do you
remember your final review? No, my final review,
let me tell you, my final review, I didn't even get a
stay for graduation. My father had had a heart
attack, and I had to leave, and I graduated in
December,
or January when it was, instead of fall term. And I
had to leave about eight or ten days before my
graduation to go back out and take over the
business. So you didn't get to have that? No, they
just sent me another problem. I didn't even get to
graduate. Before your own commencement, did you
go to other graduation ceremonies? I don't
remember any. Were there any famous visitors to
the campus that you remember during your student
days? Yeah, but I couldn't recall anything. But we
had to know for our junior prom and senior ring
dance and things like that. We had people like
Sandy Kate, Darce Day, Bob Hope came to campus one
time. That's when the Aggieland Inn was on campus.
I know I was working that day and I had to assist
Doris Day with her bags after her run. I thought, my
gosh, she's the most freckle-faced woman I ever
saw in my life. Of course, you don't see that on the
stage. Any important politicians, governors,
presidents, generals? We had a lot of military
people. And I'm sure we had some governors come,
but in that day and time it really impressed me that
much. Uh, religious activities during your
student days? Yeah, I belonged to the
church there at Northgate, the Baptist church.
And they had several social activities for those
Aggies. Did you Aggies go to Sunday service? Yeah,
most of us. Was there religious emphasis week
then? I don't know. I don't remember. That was
going on when I got there. It would be a week in the
spring and we'd have a speaker in Guyon Hall and so
forth. I'm sure it probably was, but I just don't
remember. All right, let's talk about the
diversity. Basically, in terms of religious
preference, the student body was what? I'd say it
was generally majority Protestant. Did you have
any Catholic friends, acquaintances? Yes. Were
there any Jewish students? Not a whole lot. There
might have been a few, but not a lot. Any
international students or any students who came
from some other... Not like it is now. You know, we
might have had...
We might have had, you know, a sprinkling of
students from Mexico.
Were they treated differently? No. Not that I can
remember. And where did they live? Were they part
of the... They were part of the Corps and
everything else. Do you remember anybody who
seemed unusually rich? No, and that's one thing I
liked about any of them. If they were... Enlarge on
that point. Well, if somebody came to A&M and had a
million dollars in their back pocket, they didn't
have a penny in their pocket. They were still all on
the same level. Everybody respected everybody,
and it wasn't the amount of money you had to make
your chance in life at A&M. It was a lot of other
things. And, you know, I really liked that. Did it
matter where you came from geographically? No, it
sure didn't. As you look back on it, was the
leadership composed of any certain segment of the
student body?
Well, you know, I mean, like your class officers
were basically pretty popular. No, but I mean, to
be one of those, did you have to be from a certain
place or a certain major? No. I don't know. And how
many do you think of your associates were from
college educated parents?
I'd say that there was, it'd
be a rough guess, but I would be thinking it'd be
less than good to be honest. My parents weren't.
I'll bet that's a safe guess. Let's see, what did
these veterans' wives do? They couldn't go to
class, except in the summer, so what did they do? A
lot of them worked as secretaries and things like
that.
And a lot of them were just housewives, I guess. Did
these veterans cause any changes in campus
traditions? None that I know of. They were a little
reluctant, of course, to walk in the gutter and
say, I didn't have a freshman, but... You know,
other than a few things like that, I think they
respect
the tradition. Let's see, we talked about
hitchhiking. Did you ever much ride the train or
the bus? Yes. Describe those experiences. I rode
the train, catch the train in Little Hill, Texas,
which is 20 miles from Springwood, and ride to
Covey Station on the train. What? What route was
that? Gosh, I don't know. Did you change? I think we
changed. It was Santa Fe, the left Littlefield.
And I don't know. What is that line, Joseph? I'm not
sure. I think it used to be Southern Pacific. Yeah,
I don't think it was Santa Fe. So we had to change
somewhere. But, yeah, we've done that many times.
Bus. Occasionally we'd take the bus. Where did you
catch it? You can catch the bus in Littleville too.
No, but then in College Station if you want. Oh, it
seemed to me like there was a place up in Northgate
where you caught the bus. Let's see. On El Campus,
where did an Aggie get a date? Well,
that's kind of a funny thing, but when we had our
court trips to Fort Worth and to Dallas, we'd try to
contact some Tessies, students from TSC
Kentucky, which then was a normal female school.
And on numerous occasions, we'd write this
student a box with a box number and write a letter,
and you'd be surprised how many blind dates you
could pick up that way. But other than that, there
wasn't a lot of women around Bryan College
Stationery for dating, and we really didn't. Did
you or any of your buddies ever have any
interesting test seat blind date experiences you
can share? We've had some. I've had some. I can't
remember. One of my good buddies, Bill Burrow,
finally married one that he blind dated. Describe
a court trip weekend. Well,
it alternated Fort Worth one year to Dallas the
next year, and the whole Corps would go up and march
in the town before the game that morning, or before
that afternoon. How'd you get there? Well, most of
us had shacks. And you spent the night? And
tonight, you know, we'd bundle up a bunch of us in a
hotel room and stuff like that. Anything ever
happen on Saturday night? Well, we had our
midnight yell practices there, wherever we were,
we had them. And, oh, there's a few fisticuffs
around town, things like that, but not anything
extraordinary. In general, how were the dates
treated?
I don't know what you mean by that, but I think an
Aggie is a gentleman, and the women they dated,
they were treated very properly. That's the
direction I was assuming. And what was expected
that the Aggie would do for his date that weekend?
Well, he was just kind of, if it was a date that they
had out of town to come in, They would be
as an escort to do different affairs and things and
take them to all the festivities. Would there be a
dance that night? Sometimes there wasn't,
sometimes there wasn't. And then y'all would come
home about Sunday morning? Yeah, start trickling
in on Sunday morning. And then also went to Houston
and Austin. Of the court trip. I don't remember
coming to Austin. Oh, y'all didn't do it? I don't
think we did. Oh, okay. No, that's right. And
didn't do court trips to Waco. No.
When you came home, were you kind of worn out after a
court trip weekend? Oh, young Buck, him days don't
get worn out. I wish I had the energy now. I did then.
Let's see. Special social events at College
Station. What were they? Well, some of the dances I
mentioned to you a moment
ago. And it was very special when you'd have a date
come into town for a football weekend. Because
there was always something going on other than
football. I don't guess there's near as many
special occasions as there are now on campus.
The same way the student programs. We had very few
clubs and student programs we participated in
those days. Now there's over seven of them, which I
think is wonderful for a degree. All right, you're
now a senior. What were the big social events of
being a senior? I guess you look forward to the
senior ring dance, but not much of anything. Boot
bags? Well, that's basically the same thing. Oh,
okay, okay. Oh, yeah, yeah, that's right. And that
would have been held where? We used to have it in
Subesa. And how was a young lady treated? How did
she dress and so forth? That was kind
of an obligation for a young lady
to be farmer. Let's see, did you ever have, did you
have a car while you were a student? I did my last, I
think last semester or two, I bought an old record
car. And that day you could buy an old car for $50.
Oh, I see what you meant by record. Yeah. It's an old
model. I think I bought an old 32 model Chevrolet.
And so you finish in what year? In January of 1950.
Okay, so you... Now, just before I finished that
last semester, my father did buy me a car. As a kind
of a graduation present. Let's see... You're on
the main campus now. Where did you go off campus for
a good time? Well,
I remember one evening when the battalion came
out, it had an article in it about the girls in
Temple, Texas that formed the Nagyette Club. And
the whole purpose was it was when Nagy's came into
town, they'd get on blind dates. So me and my
roommate that afternoon, when that battalion
came out, we went to Temple.
Tried out the situation, and
it worked. Well, the following two or three
weekends, one of my roommates and I started
Temple. He was a big tall guy from Olsen, Texas. And
we had called the Aggie head president to get us
dates. And they did. And we talked to them on the
phone before we got there. And Buddy being much
taller than I was, one of these girls was quite a bit
taller than the other. And so I had a date with a
taller girl. He had a date with a shorter one. So we
switched and told them why. It didn't make any
difference to them. But ironically, the girl I
wound up with, the shorter one, I finally married.
So that's how you met through? That's how I met my
wife. Aggie Et Club. Uh-huh, in Temple, Texas. Now
these Aggie Et dates were in high school or college
age? They were seniors in high school and junior
college there and business college there in
Temple. Were there Aggie Et Clubs anywhere else? I
don't know that. I've never, see you just added a
new breadth, I've not heard of that before.
Alright, so you meet her that way, and you're what
year in school? This is my senior year. Okay, and so
you began to go to Temple more often then. Okay,
when she came to College Station, where would
y'all go? I don't know that she ever came to College
Station. Alright, did an Aggie go to the movie
much? And if so, where? Well, like I said, we went to
Cannon Hall a lot. There wasn't much other. I think
there was one movie, North Campus, I mean
Northgate. But we didn't go to them. Can you
describe Northgate, what was out there? Well, the
Dixie Chicken wasn't out there then. It was just,
you know, a... Lupo had his bookstore on the corner
and then he had several little businesses if you
went on down to where the theater was. And it seemed
to me like across the street east of Lupo's there
was a couple of little businesses and a gas station
and that was about it then. Did you, were you
students aware of Mr. Lupo? Oh yes, I knew him well.
Please describe Mr. LePore. Well, he was a great
actor. He was kind of like a Pinky Downs almost. And
was a great booster of A&M. He helped many of the
students. How? You know, some students come to A&M
that didn't have a diamond scratcher. And if they
needed help with books and things, he'd make
provisions where they could get books and take
care of them later. Things like that. He was just a
He just believed in A&M 200%. Was he sincere? Oh,
absolutely. He really was. And were his
business practices fair and honest? As far as I
know, I never heard anybody complain. Describe
Mr. Lupo. Well, he was a guy about my size, maybe a
little heavier weight, and he was always in a
talented mood. That's really about as much as I
remember about it individually. And did you and
other students buy books and things from him? Yes.
Pinky Downs, who was he? Pinky Downs was a little
waggy promoter from way back. I've got what class
Pinky was in, but I mean, he never missed a football
game. He never missed a baseball or basketball
game. He was all T.L. practices. And everybody
thought of Pete Downs as one of the greatest
O'Lakes. And what did he do on campus? Well, he was
basically just a PR person, I guess. I mean, he was
top, top in A&M everywhere, any chance he had.
because he was still there when I got there in 59.
And the first time I saw Lupo was at a football
scrimmage game, and here came this guy in a little
late, yelling, gig'em, gig'em, gig'em, and I
wondered, who in the world is that guy? You know,
Pinky Downs reminds me of a whole lot of, oh
gosh, I'm proud to thank the guys associated with
the football team now that does all the, keeps all
the, materials together, suits and things. Billy
Pickard. Oh. Pinky Downs was a whole lot like Billy
Pickard. Or Billy Pickard was a lot like Pinky
Downs. Let's see. No, there were no campus
incidents, no fires, no bombings, no during your
time, whatever? Do you remember any unusual? I
don't remember anything other than that March on
Gilchrist Town. All right. Gilchrist is
president when you get there. Is he president
throughout your?
No, I don't remember. I flatly don't remember. And
you didn't go across the stage at commencement, so
you don't remember who? No. So you got your diploma
through the mail? They sent it to me through the
mail. And did y'all worry much about grade point
ratios? Well, the only thing you had to worry about
then was you had to have a 10-10 stand. 10 grade
points and 10 hours. But I found out myself, those
first few semesters were the hardest. Because
after that, in our day and time, we could take as
many hours as we wanted to. I put 23 hours on my
semester. And after my first two semesters, I made
A's and B's and a few sprinkles C's. and never
studied half as much. It was just getting
acclimatized to a routine and procedure. And in a
typical weekday, how many of those hours were you
on the campus? All the time.
So you were totally immersed. Yeah. Let's see, do
you remember any international events during
that time that caused you to kind of stop and pause
and think about what it might mean? Well, the war
was over, but I think that happened just before my
draft board told me that I could go into college. It
didn't where I would be able to continue or where
I'd be drafted in that first semester. And I went
ahead and went, and then the war was over, it
cleared over. And the draft then, the Nikes don't
think we're going to college, and things like
that. And of course, that was a very memorable
occasion, when Harris-Hammond,
Thomas Hockey, or whatever it is, was bombed with
an atomic bomb. And you graduate in December or
January of 1950, so before the Korean War. A lot of
my, most of it. The reason I didn't go to the Korean
War was because my father was an architect and he
happened to assume the farming business. But a lot
of my buddies, I guess the majority of them, did go
to the Korean War.
Most popular student indulgences of the time.
What did y'all... I don't know. I like different
things. Did anybody drink any beer in those days?
When they get to Anfield. Where?
There was a place that, a couple places at
Eastgate, that's heard there. There were places
over going into Bryan, the old Triangle. We used to
serve beer. There wasn't a whole lot, but there
were several. What were the most popular brands
for an idea? Gosh, I don't know. I don't remember at
all. Beer was beer then. And whiskey? Whiskey was
always obtained from across the river at the
bridge. What about smoking? You know, it didn't
seem to me like... Smoking was as popular then as it
had gotten after then. And what brands did the
folks smoke? Well, Chesterfields and Campbells.
Lucky Strike Green had gone to war, so it was Lucky
Strike White. Cigars? Very few cigars. Snuff?
Chewing tobacco? There were a few of the guys that
chewed with tobacco. We mentioned hard lickers.
Was there any house of ill repute?
Well, of course, there was the chicken ranch,
which is not too far because there's no other
ranch. But right around there, I don't know it. Did
you ever hear of the chicken ranch in those days?
Yeah, I think most Aggies heard it. I don't know.
Did you know of any Aggies that... admitted they'd
been there? No.
Let's see. Once you got that car, did anybody ever
borrow it or try to borrow it? No, but I sure had a lot
of people ride, more drives. Normally when you
gave somebody a ride out of town, what was the
routine about the expenses? They'd share the gas.
And if you had any money and you were going to really
splurge, what did an Aggie spend his money on?
I don't know in that position. I really don't know.
There wasn't much money to be splurged at that
time. Okay. Going to play a football game in
College Station. And this is, you're a junior, a
senior now. Describe that whole weekend. What
went on and who and where and so forth. Describe the
football weekend. Well, it was a whole weekend. I
guess the football game was a climax.
But leading up to the Y'all's Mid-Nine Hill
practices was... were really inspired. They
wasn't near the Grouse. Where were they held?
Where were the Yale practice held? You know, it
seemed to me like we used to have in the new area, but
I'm not sure. Or are we dead out there on that old
drill field behind Duncan Hall? I don't remember
doing it in Goff Hill until later years. OK, then
that's Friday night. And who went to midnight Yale
practice? We all did. Dates? Yeah, yeah. Dates
they went with you. Then Saturday, what time did
things begin? Well, Saturday began just like a
regular military day. You know, you had your
practice. Then from after that time until game
time, you kind of went on your own. You know, you got
ready to do the march-in, which you had to do
earlier for the game against Jordan. And, of
course, it wasn't as long a march-in then because
it wasn't... Well, I guess they were, too. There
were just many of them. There weren't more in the
Corps then. There were more. And during the game,
where were y'all and what'd you do? We stood up all
game. And we humped it for Yale practice, up for our
Yales.